This is brief information about the digital multimeter and how to measure resistnace,voltage and current.

Aim- This is the experiment to use degital multimeter and to measure resistance, current voltage, multiple reading etc.

Materila Required- A digital Multimeter, Resistance and Power Supply.


PROCEDURE 

                                                                        MEASURING VOLTAGE

1. First of all take a 9V battery, a multimeter, here i am talking about manual multimeter not about auto Multimeter.

2. Put the black cable in the common port of the multimeter as it is comman for all measurment.

3. Now as we are measuring voltage so put the red cable in the V(ohm) port as it is for voltage and resistance measurment.

4. Select the DC voltage in the multimeter because the battery we are will provide DC voltage.

5. Now connect the red cable to the positive terminla of the battery and black cable to the negative terminal of the battery.

6. Now rotate the dial of the multimeter to the votage marking and select the highest voltage i.e 600.

7. As your battery is of 9V so no reading will be displayed so decrese the voltage to 200 and repeat the process until you get 
   the most accurate reading.

                                                                       MEASURING RESISTANCE

1. Take a resistance of any value and by the colour code you can calculate the the nominla value of the resistance.

2. Now connect the black cabe to the common port and red cable to the V(ohm) as we are measuring resistance.

3. Now move the dial to the resistance section in the multimeter.

4. Suppose your nominal value of the resistance is 1 kilo ohm so you should keep your knob on 2K and measure the reading or
   you can select the highest value and slowely decrease it until you get most accurate value of the resistance but the above 
   methord is more convensitional.

5. Now connect the two probs of the multimetre with the two legs of the resistance. The value will be displayed on the screen in kilo ohm.


                                                                        DIODE TESTING


1. Take a diode which you want to test.

2. Now connect the black cabe to the common port and red cable to the V(ohm) port.

3. Now move the dail to the diode symbol marked in the multimeter.

4. Now on the diode their is  a band so on the right hand side of the band their is cathode i.e. negative and on the left hand side their is anode
   i.e. positive.

5. Now connect the positive terminla with the red probe and negative terminla to the black probe. 

6. Your reading will be displayed on the screen.

7.  If connect the red to cathode and black to anode you will get overlimit as current can flow only in one direction in diode.


                                                                       MEASURING CURRENT

1. To measure current take a 9V battery whichc we were using earlier.

2. You must keep this in minde that multimeter will only measure DC which also only 10A.
 
3. Now rotate your knob to the 10A DC to measure current.

4. Now you have to connect the black probe in the common and the red probe in the Amper as we are measuring current.

5. Now connect your battery to an LED as you have to give load to measure the current.

6. Now connect the positive teriminal to the red probe and negative terminal to the black probe your value of the current will be displayed.


                                                                     POINTS TO NOTE

1. While measuring voltage you must set the konbe to highest voltage because if you set your multimeter to the lower voltage and large voltage 
   is supplied by the source your multimeter will get damage.

2. To prevent the fuse from blowing your must measure the current using 10A setting.

3. When you are measuring voltage and resistance you must connect the red probe to the V(ohm).

4. when you are measuring current you must connect the red probe to the amper setting.

5. Carefully connect the the probe in order to get most accurate reading.

6. You can only measure direct current from the multimeter.

7. Reading 1 on the right hand side of the screen means overlode so no reading will be displayed.

8. To test the diode you shoud connect the the positive to positive and negative to negative otherwise it will show overload.



