This is a brief information for makeing series and parallel connection on breadboard.


Aim- To make series nad parallel connection and hands on session on breadboard.

Material Required- Breadboard, two LED, connecting wires, Resistance, A 9V Battery.

Procedure

SERIES CONNECTION

1. Take a breadboard, Two LED, a resistance,A some connecting wire.
2. Now two LED and try to connect them in such a manner that current flowing through both LED will be same.
3. For that insert LED in j  14 as these marking will be printed on your board. Make sure you insert positive terminla of LED to positive na negative 
   terminla to negative.
4. Now insert one leg of resistance in 'e' 14 and other leg in 'f' 14. 
5. Insert the wire link directly below the resistance and in the bottom rail of the breadboadr.
6. Now connect the positive wire of the battery clip to the upper rail of the breadboard and negative wire to the bottom rail of the breadboard.g
7. Plug the battery to the clip and your LED will glow. Your series connection is ready.


PARALLEL CONNECTION

1. Take a breadboard, Two LED, Two resistance, A 9V battery, connecting wires.
2. Insert one leg of first LED into 'e' 13  and other into 'e' 14 and for second LED insert one leg in 'i' 12 and into 'i' 13.
3. Insert one leg of resistance 'j' 13 and other leg to the upper positive rail of the breadboard.
4. As we have  connected both the LED into the different rail of the board so to make connection connect one wire to both the positive terminla
   and one wire to the negative terminal of the LED.
5. Now finally connect the positive wire of battery clip to the positive terminla of the LED and negative wire to negative terminla of the LED.
6. Connect the battery clip to the battery and your LED will glow. Your parallel connection is ready.



 POINTS TO REMMEMBER

1. You must remember that you must connect the every rail of the readboard you are using with the help of wires because each rail is connected 
   in diffrent patterns.

2. Try to use jumping wire beacuse they are quite stable in the breadboard and they do not pop out when we handel breadboard.

3. Make the connections creafully considering the positive and negative of LED and the board.

4. Always use a resistance along with LED as it can not sustain the amount of current that is supplied by the battery.

5. Handel all the componets carefully.

6. Place the components at the appropriate distance so that you can easliy make connections and overcrowded board is difficult ot understand. 